in 1982 a giant extraterrestrial
spaceship arrives and hovers over the
south african city of johannesburg
an investigation team finds over one
million malnourished aliens
derogatorily called prawns inside and
the south african government relocates
them to a camp called district 9.
however over the years it turns into a
slum and locals often complain that the
aliens are filthy
ignorant lawbreakers who bleed resources
from humans
following unrest between the aliens and
locals the government hires
multinational united
mnu a huge weapons manufacturer to
relocate the aliens to a new camp
outside the city
pete smith an mnu executive appoints mnu
employee and his son-in-law wikis van de
merwe to lead the relocation
meanwhile three aliens christopher
johnson
his young son cj and his friend paul
search a district 9 garbage dump for
alien fuel in prawn technology
which christopher has had them spend the
last 20 years synthesizing enough of to
enact his plan
they finally finish in paul shack as the
relocation begins but when wikis comes
to the shack to serve paula notice
he finds the hidden container with the
fuel and accidentally sprays some of it
in his face while confiscating it
paul is killed by kubus venture a cruel
mnu mercenary
wikkus begins mutating into a prawn
starting with his left arm injured after
the fuel
exposure after playing down his symptoms
he passes out and is taken to a hospital
where his left hand
is now a prawn claw he is transferred to
the mnu lab
where researchers perform brutal
experiments and discover his chimeric
dna grants him the ability to operate
prawn weaponry
that is biologically restricted for
humans
wanting to capture this human slash
alien hybridity before wikkus fully
transforms
smith orders wikis body to be vivisect
and harvested for its profitable
properties
wikis however overpowers the lab
personnel and escapes
while ventures forces hunt for him a
smear story is broadcast
one that reaches wiki's wife and smith's
daughter tanya
claiming wikkus is a wanted fugitive who
has contracted a contagious disease from
copulating with aliens
wikis takes refuge in district 9 finding
christopher and the spaceship's
concealed command module dropship
underneath his house
christopher explains to wick as the
confiscated fuel is crucial to his plan
of reactivating the drop ship
and if he can get them in the drop ship
to the mothership he can cure wikis
wiki's attempts to acquire weapons from
the district nine nigerian arms dealer
obison joe
who wants to eat wikis alien arm to gain
alien abilities
wikkus however seizes an alien weapon
and escapes
wikis and christopher force their way
through mnu to the lab and retrieve the
fuel
however after seeing the barbaric
experiments mnu has performed on his
people in the lab
including a dissected paul christopher
tells wikis he must return home as fast
as possible for help and cannot undo
wiki's mutation until he returns in
three years due to the limited supply of
the fuel
enraged wikkus knocks christopher down
and attempts to fly the module to the
mother ship himself
but it is shot down by ventures forces
venter captures wikous and christopher
but obese and joe's gang ambushes the
mnu convoy and seizes wikis and prepares
to chop off his prawn arm
meanwhile cj remaining hidden in the
dropship
remotely activates the mothership and a
large alien
mechanized battle suit in obese and
joe's base
the suit guns down the nigerians and
wikis enters the suit and rescues
christopher from the mercenaries
heading to the dropship the two come
under heavy fire
and wicku stays behind to fend off the
mercenaries
buying time for christopher who promises
to return after three years and he'll
wikis
to leave after all of the other
mercenaries are killed
ventor finally cripples the suit and is
about to execute wikis when slum aliens
attack and dismember him alive
christopher makes it into the dropship
with cj and the dropship is levitated
via a tractor beam back into the
mothership
which leaves earth mnu's experiments are
exposed
and the aliens are moved to the new camp
named district 10.
tanya finds a metal flower on her
doorstep giving her hope that wikkus is
still alive
humanity is left to speculate whether or
not christopher will return to declare
war on earth
or if he will return to take all the
aliens back to their home world
meanwhile a now fully transformed wikis
is shown in a junkyard crafting the
flower for his wife
you